README.rst, before:

########################################################################
Infinite Monkeys
########################################################################

The `infinite monkey theorem`_ suggests that a monkey pressing keys
randomly at a keyboard will, eventually, write the complete works of
William Shakespeare.

Simple containers (such as the Python ``list`` and ``dict``) can be
composed to implement complex data structures and algorithms. A classic
example is a Markov Chain that can be trained on a corpus of text to
randomly generate new sentences. Collecting the works of `William
Shakespeare from MIT`_, we can simulate infinite monkeys and create
mildly-realistic Shakespearean verse.


.. _`infinite monkey theorem`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infinite_monkey_theorem

.. _`William Shakespeare from MIT`: http://shakespeare.mit.edu/


------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Tragedy of Hamlet
------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. pull-quote::

	"Words, words, words." -- Hamlet_

1. Collect the text of "Hamlet" from MIT's website.
2. Parse dialogue from the HTML-formatted play.
3. Train a Markov chain with a 2-word memory.
4. Randomly generate a sentence.

Comment-out any sections you don't wish to repeat if running this script
multiple times. It's impolite to frequently and repeatedly download the
same file from the MIT website.


.. _Hamlet: http://shakespeare.mit.edu/hamlet/hamlet.2.2.html#speech52

----

Copyright (c) 2017 Michael Selik.

Commit message:

refactor in an object-oriented style
Having tested the idea on one play, I scaled up to the complete works. I
added a multithreaded downloader and organized the Markov chain
functions into a class.

README.rst, after:

########################################################################
Infinite Monkeys
########################################################################

The `infinite monkey theorem`_ suggests that a monkey pressing keys
randomly at a keyboard will, eventually, write the `Complete Works of
William Shakespeare`_.

.. pull-quote::

   "Words, words, words." -- Hamlet_

We can simulate infinite monkeys as a Markov chain and create mildly
realistic Shakespearean verse. To increase the realism, you can increase
the ``WordChain``'s ``memory``. On relatively small datasets like
Shakespeare's, the chain rapidly becomes a random quote selector rather
than a simulator.

============  ==========  ======================================================
Memory        Randomness  Example generated sentence
============  ==========  ======================================================
Last word     44.65%      Yea and could meet him I am your valour preys on you.
Last 2 words  17.08%      Hath raised in me But as the day of doom.
Last 3 words  5.03%       Which of you saw Sir Eglamour of late?
Last 4 words  0.88%       We have not spoke us yet of torchbearers.
============  ==========  ======================================================

"Randomness" is the percent of states in the chain with more than 1 transition.


.. _`infinite monkey theorem`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infinite_monkey_theorem

.. _`Complete Works of William Shakespeare`: http://shakespeare.mit.edu/

.. _Hamlet: http://shakespeare.mit.edu/hamlet/hamlet.2.2.html#speech52

----

Copyright (c) 2017 Michael Selik.
